# vector-tilemaker

Application and related tools for preparing vector tile data. We make use of both our own code and third party utilities here, in particular, tippecanoe is a key application for preprocessing vector information in high efficiency tile archives. Per ADR-006, we preprocess data where reasonable in common exchange formats like gzip compressed geojson elsewhere before use by applications and pipelines in this directory.

## Generating vector tiles

### "Standards" compliant approach

We use tippecanoe, currently the following example command can be used as basis

```
./third-party-tools/tippecanoe/2.79.0/bin/tippecanoe -o digital-obstacle-latlng.pmtiles -l obstacles -z9 -Z2 --drop-densest-as-needed ../third-party-static-data/utility/dof2geojson/obstacle-records-geojson.gz
```

This takes a processed digital obstacle file dataset and turns it into vector tiles stored in a pmtiles archive. Note well that this approach assumes that the input geojson is using EPSG:4326 (ie WGS84 lat,lng) for coordinates instead of ESRI:102009 easting and northing. It generates web mercator style outputs, ie EPG:3857, that require on-the-fly reprojecting in clients to match tiles generated by ../raster-tilemaker

### "Non-standards" compliant approach

**This is currently in use**

We use tippecanoe with a trick input,

```
./third-party-tools/tippecanoe/2.79.0/bin/tippecanoe -f -o digital-obstacle.pmtiles -s EPSG:3857 -l obstacles -zg --drop-densest-as-needed ../third-party-static-data/utility/dof2geojson/obstacle-records-escri102009.geojson.gz
```

Note well that we set `-s EPSG:3857` but provide an archive labelled with ESRI:102009. This works because both projects use meters easting and northing from their respective origins. Tippecanoe in both cases happily tiles in zxy vectors. The output is slightly broken but works in a closed ecosystem. Notably, the center and bounds fields of the pmtiles archive are wrong in this formulation. 

In order to use this origin, the consuming application needs to know a few important things,
1. The tile origin is '0, 0'
2. The tile projection is ESRI:102009 (or whatever the origin geojson was projected to)
3. The bounds of the projection, in the case of ESRI:102009, 
        [-6698991.38,
          -1707869.78,
          4576959.89,
          6243265.5
        ],
        "wgs84": [
          -172.54, 23.81,
          -47.74, 86.46
        ]